README.md, before:

# nestjs-google-pubsub-cqrs

[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/nestjs-google-pubsub-cqrs.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/js/nestjs-google-pubsub-cqrs)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

A powerful Google Pub/Sub integration for NestJS CQRS that enables seamless event-driven communication between microservices.

## 🚀 Features

- **Seamless NestJS Integration**: Drop-in replacement for the default NestJS CQRS event bus
- **Google Pub/Sub Powered**: Leverages Google Cloud Pub/Sub for reliable message delivery
- **Event-Driven Architecture**: Perfect for microservices communication
- **Type-Safe**: Full TypeScript support with proper type definitions
- **Auto-Discovery**: Automatically discovers and registers event handlers
- **Flexible Configuration**: Support for both synchronous and asynchronous configuration

## 📦 Installation

```bash
npm install nestjs-google-pubsub-cqrs @google-cloud/pubsub
```

## 🏗️ Prerequisites

- Node.js 16+
- NestJS 8+
- Google Cloud Pub/Sub topic and subscription
- Google Cloud authentication configured

## 🚀 Quick Start

### 1. Basic Setup

Replace your existing `CqrsModule` with `PubSubCqrsModule`:

```typescript
import { Module } from "@nestjs/common";
import { PubSubCqrsModule } from "nestjs-google-pubsub-cqrs";

@Module({
  imports: [
    PubSubCqrsModule.forRoot({
      subscriptionName: "my-service-subscription",
      topicName: "my-events-topic",
      projectId: "my-gcp-project",
      apiEndpoint: "localhost", // Optional: for local development
      port: 8085, // Optional: for local development
    }),
  ],
})
export class AppModule {}
```

### 2. Create Events

Define your events using the provided `BaseEvent` interface:

```typescript
import { BaseEvent } from "nestjs-google-pubsub-cqrs";

export interface UserCreatedPayload {
  userId: string;
  email: string;
  name: string;
}

export class UserCreatedEvent implements BaseEvent {
  constructor(public readonly payload: UserCreatedPayload) {}
}
```

### 3. Publish Events

Inject and use the `EventBus` to publish events:

```typescript
import { Injectable } from "@nestjs/common";
import { EventBus } from "@nestjs/cqrs";
import { UserCreatedEvent } from "./events/user-created.event";

@Injectable()
export class UserService {
  constructor(private readonly eventBus: EventBus) {}

  async createUser(userData: any) {
    // ... user creation logic

    // Publish event to Google Pub/Sub
    await this.eventBus.publish(
      new UserCreatedEvent({
        userId: user.id,
        email: user.email,
        name: user.name,
      })
    );
  }
}
```

### 4. Handle Events

Create event handlers using NestJS CQRS decorators:

```typescript
import { EventsHandler, IEventHandler } from "@nestjs/cqrs";
import { UserCreatedEvent } from "./events/user-created.event";

@EventsHandler(UserCreatedEvent)
export class UserCreatedHandler implements IEventHandler<UserCreatedEvent> {
  handle(event: UserCreatedEvent) {
    console.log("User created:", event.payload);
    // Handle the event (send email, update analytics, etc.)
  }
}
```

## ⚙️ Configuration

### Synchronous Configuration

```typescript
PubSubCqrsModule.forRoot({
  subscriptionName: "my-service-subscription",
  topicName: "my-events-topic",
  projectId: "my-gcp-project",
  apiEndpoint: "localhost", // Optional
  port: 8085, // Optional
});
```

### Asynchronous Configuration

```typescript
PubSubCqrsModule.forRootAsync({
  useFactory: async (configService: ConfigService) => ({
    subscriptionName: configService.get("PUBSUB_SUBSCRIPTION"),
    topicName: configService.get("PUBSUB_TOPIC"),
    projectId: configService.get("GCP_PROJECT_ID"),
    apiEndpoint: configService.get("PUBSUB_ENDPOINT"),
    port: configService.get("PUBSUB_PORT"),
  }),
  inject: [ConfigService],
});
```

### Configuration Options

| Option             | Type     | Required | Description                                        |
| ------------------ | -------- | -------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
| `subscriptionName` | `string` | ✅       | Google Pub/Sub subscription name                   |
| `topicName`        | `string` | ✅       | Google Pub/Sub topic name                          |
| `projectId`        | `string` | ✅       | Google Cloud Project ID                            |
| `apiEndpoint`      | `string` | ❌       | Custom API endpoint (useful for local development) |
| `port`             | `number` | ❌       | Custom port (useful for local development)         |

## 🏢 Microservices Architecture

### Service A (Publisher)

```typescript
// user.service.ts
@Injectable()
export class UserService {
  constructor(private readonly eventBus: EventBus) {}

  async createUser(userData: CreateUserDto) {
    const user = await this.userRepository.save(userData);

    // This event will be published to Google Pub/Sub
    await this.eventBus.publish(
      new UserCreatedEvent({
        userId: user.id,
        email: user.email,
        name: user.name,
      })
    );

    return user;
  }
}
```

### Service B (Subscriber)

```typescript
// notification.service.ts
@EventsHandler(UserCreatedEvent)
export class SendWelcomeEmailHandler
  implements IEventHandler<UserCreatedEvent>
{
  constructor(private readonly emailService: EmailService) {}

  async handle(event: UserCreatedEvent) {
    await this.emailService.sendWelcomeEmail(
      event.payload.email,
      event.payload.name
    );
  }
}
```

## 🔧 Local Development

Local development workaround to be added soon.

## 📚 API Reference

### PubSubCqrsModule

The main module that replaces NestJS `CqrsModule`.

#### Static Methods

- `forRoot(options: IConnectionOptions): DynamicModule`
- `forRootAsync(options: any): DynamicModule`

### BaseEvent

Interface that all events should implement.

```typescript
interface BaseEvent extends IEvent, PayloadableEvent {
  payload: object;
}
```

### PubSubService

Service for direct interaction with Google Pub/Sub (advanced usage).

#### Methods

- `connect(options: IConnectionOptions): Promise<void>`
- `read$(): Observable<GlobalBusMessage>`
- `write(message: GlobalBusMessage): Promise<void>`

### IConnectionOptions

Configuration interface for Pub/Sub connection.

```typescript
interface IConnectionOptions {
  subscriptionName: string;
  topicName: string;
  projectId: string;
  apiEndpoint?: string;
  port?: number;
}
```

## 🚨 Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

**1. Authentication Error**

```
Error: Could not load the default credentials
```

**Solution**: Configure Google Cloud authentication:

```bash
gcloud auth application-default login
# OR
export GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS="path/to/service-account-key.json"
```

**2. Topic/Subscription Not Found**

```
Error: Topic was not found
```

**Solution**: Create the topic and subscription in Google Cloud Console or using gcloud CLI:

```bash
gcloud pubsub topics create my-events-topic
gcloud pubsub subscriptions create my-service-subscription --topic=my-events-topic
```

**3. Events Not Being Received**
**Solution**: Ensure all services use the same topic name and different subscription names.

### Debug Mode

Enable debug logging to troubleshoot connection issues:

```typescript
import { Logger } from "@nestjs/common";

// The module automatically logs connection status
// Check your application logs for messages like:
// "Global Bus connection established - my-service-subscription"
```

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

### Development Setup

```bash
git clone https://github.com/your-username/nestjs-google-pubsub-cqrs.git
cd nestjs-google-pubsub-cqrs
npm install
npm run build
npm test
```

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- Built for the NestJS community
- Powered by Google Cloud Pub/Sub
- Inspired by event-driven architecture patterns

---

**Made with ❤️ for the NestJS community**

Commit message:

Integration testing setup (#7)
* Fix writing logs into artifacts folder. Add additional check to lib for checking metadata.

* Add peerDeps installation into readme

* Log artifacts when after handler run.

* Fix Nest V11 events bind & handle.

* Extend CI to check for integration working correctly.

* Fix integration job.

* Fix CI job.

* fix ci

* Add better debugging and environment setup for integration tests

- Set PUBSUB_EMULATOR_HOST environment variable for both services
- Add debug logging to see service startup process
- Add 5-second initial delay before checking service readiness
- Display service logs in CI output when services fail to start
- Improve error messages with attempt counters

* Fix integration tests: build main library before services

The integration test services need the main library to be built first
since they import 'nestjs-google-pubsub-cqrs' which requires the
dist/index.js file to exist.

* Add dynamic script runner.

* Implement modular integration test framework

- Created run-integration-tests.js master runner that iterates through all .sh scripts
- Each test script now has a corresponding .events.json config file
- Added timing fix: 2-second wait after each test script to ensure events are processed
- Removed separate CI steps for waiting and manual log checking
- Tests are now easily extensible: just add new .sh + .events.json pairs

Current test: check-direct-event-dispatch.sh validates UserCreatedEvent flow

README.md, after:

# nestjs-google-pubsub-cqrs

[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/nestjs-google-pubsub-cqrs.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/js/nestjs-google-pubsub-cqrs)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

A powerful Google Pub/Sub integration for NestJS CQRS that enables seamless event-driven communication between microservices.

## 🚀 Features

- **Seamless NestJS Integration**: Drop-in replacement for the default NestJS CQRS event bus
- **Google Pub/Sub Powered**: Leverages Google Cloud Pub/Sub for reliable message delivery
- **Event-Driven Architecture**: Perfect for microservices communication
- **Type-Safe**: Full TypeScript support with proper type definitions
- **Auto-Discovery**: Automatically discovers and registers event handlers
- **Flexible Configuration**: Support for both synchronous and asynchronous configuration

## 📦 Installation

```bash
npm install nestjs-google-pubsub-cqrs
```

> **Note:** This package lists `@nestjs/common`, `@nestjs/core`, and `@nestjs/cqrs` as peer dependencies. You must install these packages in your own application:
>
> ```bash
> npm install @nestjs/common @nestjs/core @nestjs/cqrs
> ```
>
> This approach ensures that your application uses a single instance of each NestJS package, avoiding issues that can arise from having multiple versions or instances of these core dependencies (such as dependency injection errors or unexpected behavior in your NestJS app).

## 🏗️ Prerequisites

- Node.js 16+
- NestJS 8+
- Google Cloud Pub/Sub topic and subscription
- Google Cloud authentication configured

## 🚀 Quick Start

### 1. Basic Setup

Replace your existing `CqrsModule` with `PubSubCqrsModule`:

```typescript
import { Module } from "@nestjs/common";
import { PubSubCqrsModule } from "nestjs-google-pubsub-cqrs";

@Module({
  imports: [
    PubSubCqrsModule.forRoot({
      subscriptionName: "my-service-subscription",
      topicName: "my-events-topic",
      projectId: "my-gcp-project",
      apiEndpoint: "localhost", // Optional: for local development
      port: 8085, // Optional: for local development
    }),
  ],
})
export class AppModule {}
```

### 2. Create Events

Define your events using the provided `BaseEvent` interface:

```typescript
import { BaseEvent } from "nestjs-google-pubsub-cqrs";

export interface UserCreatedPayload {
  userId: string;
  email: string;
  name: string;
}

export class UserCreatedEvent implements BaseEvent {
  constructor(public readonly payload: UserCreatedPayload) {}
}
```

### 3. Publish Events

Inject and use the `EventBus` to publish events:

```typescript
import { Injectable } from "@nestjs/common";
import { EventBus } from "@nestjs/cqrs";
import { UserCreatedEvent } from "./events/user-created.event";

@Injectable()
export class UserService {
  constructor(private readonly eventBus: EventBus) {}

  async createUser(userData: any) {
    // ... user creation logic

    // Publish event to Google Pub/Sub
    await this.eventBus.publish(
      new UserCreatedEvent({
        userId: user.id,
        email: user.email,
        name: user.name,
      })
    );
  }
}
```

### 4. Handle Events

Create event handlers using NestJS CQRS decorators:

```typescript
import { EventsHandler, IEventHandler } from "@nestjs/cqrs";
import { UserCreatedEvent } from "./events/user-created.event";

@EventsHandler(UserCreatedEvent)
export class UserCreatedHandler implements IEventHandler<UserCreatedEvent> {
  handle(event: UserCreatedEvent) {
    console.log("User created:", event.payload);
    // Handle the event (send email, update analytics, etc.)
  }
}
```

## ⚙️ Configuration

### Synchronous Configuration

```typescript
PubSubCqrsModule.forRoot({
  subscriptionName: "my-service-subscription",
  topicName: "my-events-topic",
  projectId: "my-gcp-project",
  apiEndpoint: "localhost", // Optional
  port: 8085, // Optional
});
```

### Asynchronous Configuration

```typescript
PubSubCqrsModule.forRootAsync({
  useFactory: async (configService: ConfigService) => ({
    subscriptionName: configService.get("PUBSUB_SUBSCRIPTION"),
    topicName: configService.get("PUBSUB_TOPIC"),
    projectId: configService.get("GCP_PROJECT_ID"),
    apiEndpoint: configService.get("PUBSUB_ENDPOINT"),
    port: configService.get("PUBSUB_PORT"),
  }),
  inject: [ConfigService],
});
```

### Configuration Options

| Option             | Type     | Required | Description                                        |
| ------------------ | -------- | -------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
| `subscriptionName` | `string` | ✅       | Google Pub/Sub subscription name                   |
| `topicName`        | `string` | ✅       | Google Pub/Sub topic name                          |
| `projectId`        | `string` | ✅       | Google Cloud Project ID                            |
| `apiEndpoint`      | `string` | ❌       | Custom API endpoint (useful for local development) |
| `port`             | `number` | ❌       | Custom port (useful for local development)         |

## 🏢 Microservices Architecture

### Service A (Publisher)

```typescript
// user.service.ts
@Injectable()
export class UserService {
  constructor(private readonly eventBus: EventBus) {}

  async createUser(userData: CreateUserDto) {
    const user = await this.userRepository.save(userData);

    // This event will be published to Google Pub/Sub
    await this.eventBus.publish(
      new UserCreatedEvent({
        userId: user.id,
        email: user.email,
        name: user.name,
      })
    );

    return user;
  }
}
```

### Service B (Subscriber)

```typescript
// notification.service.ts
@EventsHandler(UserCreatedEvent)
export class SendWelcomeEmailHandler
  implements IEventHandler<UserCreatedEvent>
{
  constructor(private readonly emailService: EmailService) {}

  async handle(event: UserCreatedEvent) {
    await this.emailService.sendWelcomeEmail(
      event.payload.email,
      event.payload.name
    );
  }
}
```

## 🔧 Local Development

Local development workaround to be added soon.

## 📚 API Reference

### PubSubCqrsModule

The main module that replaces NestJS `CqrsModule`.

#### Static Methods

- `forRoot(options: IConnectionOptions): DynamicModule`
- `forRootAsync(options: any): DynamicModule`

### BaseEvent

Interface that all events should implement.

```typescript
interface BaseEvent extends IEvent, PayloadableEvent {
  payload: object;
}
```

### PubSubService

Service for direct interaction with Google Pub/Sub (advanced usage).

#### Methods

- `connect(options: IConnectionOptions): Promise<void>`
- `read$(): Observable<GlobalBusMessage>`
- `write(message: GlobalBusMessage): Promise<void>`

### IConnectionOptions

Configuration interface for Pub/Sub connection.

```typescript
interface IConnectionOptions {
  subscriptionName: string;
  topicName: string;
  projectId: string;
  apiEndpoint?: string;
  port?: number;
}
```

## 🚨 Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

**1. Authentication Error**

```
Error: Could not load the default credentials
```

**Solution**: Configure Google Cloud authentication:

```bash
gcloud auth application-default login
# OR
export GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS="path/to/service-account-key.json"
```

**2. Topic/Subscription Not Found**

```
Error: Topic was not found
```

**Solution**: Create the topic and subscription in Google Cloud Console or using gcloud CLI:

```bash
gcloud pubsub topics create my-events-topic
gcloud pubsub subscriptions create my-service-subscription --topic=my-events-topic
```

**3. Events Not Being Received**
**Solution**: Ensure all services use the same topic name and different subscription names.

### Debug Mode

Enable debug logging to troubleshoot connection issues:

```typescript
import { Logger } from "@nestjs/common";

// The module automatically logs connection status
// Check your application logs for messages like:
// "Global Bus connection established - my-service-subscription"
```

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

### Development Setup

```bash
git clone https://github.com/your-username/nestjs-google-pubsub-cqrs.git
cd nestjs-google-pubsub-cqrs
npm install
npm run build
npm test
```

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- Built for the NestJS community
- Powered by Google Cloud Pub/Sub
- Inspired by event-driven architecture patterns

---

**Made with ❤️ for the NestJS community**
